# 2024-02-19: CNAME reclaim for WSLH lessons learned
On 02/18, we were intending to take an A record and convert it into a CNAME. The process was supposed to take 30m, but it ultimately took around 3 hours because of things I didn't know about active directory, samba, or Linux's integrating with AD/Samba

I spent some time on the Monday after the cutover writing up a lessons learned document so I could fully understand what happened. I'm copying it, lightly redacted, so that I can remember

# Lessons learned summary email
Hey folks,
(This is mostly for the other Infrastructure folks, but leaving the Operations folks on so that you can see our plan at the bottom for making the next failover smoother/faster)

It still took quite a while for me to cut over the Samba shares this Sunday. I wanted to share some of the lessons learned and thoughts for making sure the cutover from DR -> PRD is smoother in a few weeks.

* I could have communicated sooner that the IP steps were complete and that we were only waiting on Samba. The IP steps were successful in the ~30-60 minute timeframe, but Samba took a fair bit longer to troubleshoot. Maybe in our plan we can have it be something like “IP cutover” and then separately towards the end “Samba validation”?
* I made my DNS changes against SLHDCONF-1 but the IsmSrv service was stopped so replication didn’t occur. Using the manual replication in Sites & Services WILL NOT tell you that replication is down, so you also need to check your source server to make sure the “Push” operation succeeds. Hopefully the AD patching  this month will fix this service being kind of flaky the past couple months.
* We previously thought that we should expect to see the lims4 hostname in the list of valid SPNs for the new host after cutover. It turns out that while having the lims4 SPNs on an old host is an indication of an AD problem, NOT having the lims4 SPNs / Kerberos entries on the new hosts doesn’t tell you whether or not AD integration is successful! This is unfortunate, because it means that a successful AD cutover and a failed AD cutover look identical from both the Linux side and the Windows side. Ultimately you have to test samba access via file explorer in order to know, which brings us to…
* File explorer can cache failed samba accesses even if you flush your DNS on the Windows side and restart the Samba daemons (smbd,nmbd,winbind,sssd) on the linux side. The fastest way to get around this limitation is to try a different share that you haven’t already failed to access. John also had the clever workaround of trying the samba access by first RDP-ing into a different computer, which is handy if you’ve run out of “fresh” shares!
* The process of leaving and joining AD to try to get new SPNs also makes changes to Linux config files that re-joining doesn’t automatically correct(krb.conf, sssd.conf, smb.conf). Given the SPN discovery above, I’m hopeful that we won’t need to leave / join for the PRD cutover. Once I realized that it made these changes, I was able to fix it by re-running my config management automation, so I have a fast way to fix hosts if realm shenanigans is needed.
* GSSAPI passthrough (logging into linux without an extra password prompt) takes a SURPRISING amount of time to catch up. We left our window thinking it was broken, but it started working without any further intervention this morning.

The plan for the DR -> PRD cutover:
Given a few of these notes I’m hopeful that the DR -> PRD CNAME cutover will be easier. Because we’re not converting a hostname into a CNAME, we shouldn’t have to worry about getting the old host to ‘surrender’ the host name in AD. I’m going to do some experimenting in our ADTEST forest to figure out what the easiest procedure is going forward.

Things I’ll be testing out:
* May just be able to change CNAME and cut over without touching Kerberos. Currently neither PRD nor DR have lims4 associated with them in Kerberos/AD. I think the file explorer caching is the trickiest part here.
* Given that drlims doesn’t have any lims4 SPNs to surrender, may be able to just leave AD on PRDLIMS after DNS cutover and re-join (using my config management automation to revert the linux config changes).
* If the above two doesn’t work, we might just be able to realm leave both and re-run config management.

Thanks,
Justin

# The tests
I had some ideas for how these things might go now that we don't have to convert A records to cnames. It turns out that going forward we won't need any of this extra stuff -- you just change the host that the cname points to and Samba fixes itself up
