# Achievements since __2024-01-01__
I didn't expect to have a 6 month review, but I did! So I should keep track of my achievements since the new year

# Template
## Achievement -- what did I do?
* __When__: Approximate timeframe of when it happened
* __Why__: The "situation" that caused you to solve this problem
* __How__: More details about the technical process, motivation, or the 'action' took to resolve
* __Result__: Quantify benefits to the extent possible

# The List!

## Troubleshoot Epic Storage to Allow Project to Proceed
* __When__: Early January, 2024
* __Why__: The Epic team had tooling that reported unusually poor storage performance for their production systems, causing them to feel uncomfortable about cutting overto the new VMs in production.
* __How__: Troubleshot the VMs in detail and wrote detailed summaries about findings. While we suspected quite early that it was due to the servers being idle, it was clear that the comfort level of Operations wasn't going to change without significant investigation. My detailed reports ruled out misconfigurations and provided them some tests that they could perform to increase their own confidence.
* __Result__: The ODBAs were able to cut over to the new VMs as they were originally configured. 

## Rapidly Diagnose and Resolve Cross-Organization Integration Problem
* __When__: March 12th, 2024
* __Why__: We received notice from a different agency that a legally-important integration between our two agencies broke. It was escalated to me when both development teams on both sides where unable to make progress after several days of mutual troubleshooting
* __How__: Worked with development to mock up a test request, set up environment to allow temporary usage of pre-master secrets, used pcap to determine that our java client was returning an untrusted certificate error, looked at the server cert & java runtime to determine that CA in chain was not present in Java runtime despite being publicly trusted, used CA Chain from server certificate to add missing public CA to runtime environment.
* __Result__: Was able to diagnose and correct issue by midmorning the same day it was reported. Discussed some options for remediating in CI/CD, but since the client executable and runtime weren't under our control decided on documentation for developers to diagnose and remediate quickly.

## Troubleshot Complex UDP Stun Alerts
* __When__: March 27th - March 28th, 2024
* __Why__: Started receiving lots of unexpected STUN alerts on small number of workstations. Needed to identify whether malicious or not.
* __How__: First, tried listening to tapped traffic to see if follow-ups were being sent. No follow up traffic, which seemed unusual. Noticed that STUN was not re-attempted. Cross-referenced list of STUN IP attempts with installed applications, and found application (SyncThing) that connected to relevant servers and did not re-attempt. Wrote article for users on tuning STUN server location so we could programatically rule this out as a false positive by only omitting 1 public server.
* __Result__: Reduction in spurious STUN alerts. This specific condition would cause a large spike in spurious alerts, which meant that Threat Hunting process would often flag and investigate this user for legitimate activity.
